---
title: Requesting Help from A Bystander
layout: home
nav_order: 1
---


# Requesting Help from Bystander Research

## Introduction

This research aims to understand what features should be used when a robot is asking for help from a bystander. Specifically, we investigate what the robot should address and what it shouldn't when requesting assistance.

## Best Practices

### Progress

#### **Creating a Feature List**

We initiated our process by constructing an initial list of features that might influence the request for assistance from a bystander.

The primary categories we identified are:

- **Urgency of the Task**
- **Social Influence and Norms**
- **Physical Inability of the Robot**
- **Cognitive Inability of the Robot**
- **Expensive Alternative Plan for the Robot**
- **Safety of Providing Help**
- **Level of Interruption to the Person**

In addition, we generated five distinct scenarios related to various environments: hospital, restaurant, school, and office building.

- **Assisting a robot to press the elevator button**
- **Aiding a robot to clean a spill on the floor**
- **Assisting a robot to open a door**
- **Helping a robot in a sorting task**
- **Assisting a tangled robot**

We carried out three Prolific surveys, presenting participants with different scenarios and asking them, via a Likert scale, how likely they would assist the robot given each of the described features.

- **Survey with 10 Participants**
- **Survey with 20 Participants**
- **Survey with 80 Participants**

Our findings revealed that certain factors have more influence than others:

- The physical inability of the robot plays a crucial role in rendering assistance.
- On average, more challenging scenarios receive lower scores.
- Challenging scenarios tend to achieve higher scores in the domains of Social Influence, Physical, and Risk.
- Scores decrease when scenarios involve a higher level of interruption.
- Surprisingly, statements related to Risk achieve the highest scores, with minimal variance.
- Considerations of Pity appear to have no significant effect on participants' decisions.

We also observed that the scenario and setting itself have a high influence, and thus, we decided to refine our feature extraction approach.

We resolved to create a feature tree containing all features we could extract from four main sources:

- Articles in the field of HRI and requesting assistance from humans
- Generated by GPT-4
- Strong features from the previous study
- Suggestions from participants

We conducted a preliminary study using 10 participants with these features to examine participant reactions and prompt users to attribute additional features.

Our findings revealed that participants:

- Find the usefulness of the robot crucial in deciding to help it.
- Are more likely to help if the robot's request for assistance poses a danger to the environment.

#### **Creating a Context Tree**

To address the need for context in each scenario, we decided to create a context feature tree to derive contexts for each scenario.

To achieve this, we applied the same approach as before, deriving features from two sources:

- Articles in the field of HRI and requesting assistance from humans
- Generated by GPT-4

We developed a context tree with features related to the subject matter.

We examined these contextual features via a Prolific survey, asking participants to rate how these contextual features affect their decision to help the robot.